A great civilization is not
conquered from without until It has
destroyed itself from within W. DURANT
the heart...
...for smoke frog.
Thank you
this liver for curl nose.
cocoa leat...
...the ears. Thank you
and for you blunted...
...the balls
not this again
i'm helping you then you
eat them!
I don't need them. Neither
do the rest of the fellows
do you fellows? No.
Of course not! Sometimes!
What do you think? No!
No. no!
But how many times does it take?
I have eight older sisters
and one brother
father took tapir balls all
ten times
shall I tell him?
I'm sorry. The balls are useless
you've never had them? Couldn't
tell you what they taste like.
None ofyou?
No. but it's
been fun watching you...
this was your idea!
Get him off me!
Calm down!
Why do you let them treat
you like this?
Be strong
where is your pride?
It all works... yes?
Yes...
i just can't make children.
There is something
I will tell you...
...but I warn you. it's
very powerful
what do you speak of?
The soanzo leaf
the soanzo leaf?
From the great marshes
in the south...
this is what gave me my
ten children
no! No! Wait...
you have to rub them on...
down there
just before you next try
apply it generously...
i don't know how to thank you.
If this works... maybe she'll
stop bothering me
your wife?
No. her mother
the old hag wants grandchildren
give me some meat
here. work on this...
...pure meat...
ball breath
what do you want?
What do you want?
I am flint sky. I have hunted
this forest from the day I came of age
my father hunted this forest
with me and before me.
Jaguar paw. My son
he hunts this forest with me
he will hunt it with his
son after I am gone
a good catch/
good waters here
the forest gives much here
we ask only to pass through
pass.
Keep safe as you pass.
Let's go.
Our lands were ravaged.
We seek a new beginning.
Your lands were ravaged?
Yes...
we seek a new beginning...
be still my son!
Be still
back to the village
i ask you not to speak of what
you saw in the forest today
you are troubled
yes. I am
those people in the forest.
what did you see on them?
I do not understand.
Fear
deep rotting fear.
They were infected by it.
Did you see?
Fear is a sickness
it will crawl into the soul
of anyone who engages it
it has tainted your peace already.
I did not raise you to see
you live with fear
strike it fromyour heart
do not bring it into our
village.
At first light we will gather
with the elder...
...at the sacred hill
of our fathers
there we will call on
their spirits to guide us
oh here he is!
The big lump!
He's useless.
He can't do it.
You! Yes you!
With your height and your girth.
You have deceived us
get inside!
Damn you! Get in there!
Old woman. please
move it!
You don't work!
What are you laughing about!
Give me a grandchild or
I will have you replaced
mother. that's enough
do not come out until
you make a child
two would be better what?
Twins you oaf
mother
can you go away? He says he can't
with you sitting there
just get busy
mom...
she's gone
mother. what do you say we should
have ate the feast tonight?
I have tapir...
but I also found this boy.
I say boy! Rosted!
The tapir smells better.
I think it's more fresh
no dad! No! It's me!
It's me!
I'll just hang the boy here in case
we change our minds
wait...
that's our turtles run.
That's our eldest
yes it's me it's your eldest!
In that case a crush for
my eldest...
...and a crush for my youngest.
Tapir it is.
One day. old man!
One day you won't be
able to run anymore!
And a man sat alone
drenched deep in sadness.
And all the animals drew near
to him and said:
We do not like to see you so sad...
ask us for whatever you wish
and you shall have it.
The man said I want to have
good sight.
The vulture replied: You
shall have mine
the man said: I want to be
strong
the jaguar said:
You shall be strong like me
then the man said I long to
know the secrets of the earth
the serpent replied: I will
show them to you
and so it went with all the animals
and when the man had all the gifts
that they could give...
...he left
then the owl said to the other
animals:
Now the man knows much and is able
to do many things...
suddenly I am afraid.
The deer said: The man has
all that he needs.
Now his sadness will stop
but the owl replied: No
i saw a hole in the man...
deep like a hunger he will
never fill...
it is what makes him sad
and what makes him want
he will go on taking and
taking...
until one day the world
will say:
I am no more and I have
nothing left to give
come back to me...
come back to me
my son is dancing
your son is happy
what do you want?
Run!
Now thatyou're up.
can you please kill that dog?
The dog
get up. Get up. Now
go to the forest
run do not look back
no. no. I am afraid
look into my eyes.
Iook into my eyes
be strong
i am afraid
tie him up
father
the others. I have to help
no. don't leave us
i will come back. I promise
don'tyou leave
i promise
stay. please stay
father. don't go
very nice
stop!
Tie him up!
I want him alive
sorry father
that's enough!
Stand him up
move away
my son
don't be afraid
almost...
...that's your name
"almost"
our life is over
shame...
shame!
Cowards!
Let's move!
We move out now
they are back
get up!
Heave!
Cut rock. you forgot to duck
hold still
can you see?
Yes
get back to your line
come with us...
get up
leave him alone. almost
I said get up
up. up...
...that's it.
Let's go
this man is a good friend
ofyours...
don't worry...
I'll take care of them
they are mine now
gentle ixchel. tender mother
of mercy
keep them from harm. please.
keep them
one more
ready?
Hold on! Hold on!
Wait...
...let's see what happens
that's it!
Hurry!
Pull! Be strong!
Yes! You did it
good work
can you breathe? ...good
wait here
what's become of my capture?
Dead weight
he nearly took the rest with him
I let him go
you. let him go?
Shall we now do whatyou want?
Let us try that
don't let any others go
let's move
get up almost
we don't want to
lose you justyet
stand up. boy
you proved yourself today. my son
you're now worthy to stand
with the rest of us
thank you father
take it...
...it's yours
it has taken many lives
get some rest
resting brothers...
...fathters. mothers. wives
you felt the cold of this day's
early morning
now you cannot feel the coldness
of its night
she stopped screaming...
...too long before they returned.
she had stopped screaming
we saw how she fought them
but in the final moment?
If she let them...
...the goddess of the scaffold
shows no mercy for the weakness...
her soul waits for yours in the
shade of the ceiba tree
I need to know
before this day's end I will
leave this world
I will take as many of these
bastard dogs with me as I can
and I will gladly embrace the
torments of hell...
...if I do not find my sky
flower there
don't rain
I am walking here
keep away she has the sickness
get back!
You fear me?
So you should...
...all you who are vile
would you like to know
how you will die?
The sacred time is near...
beware the blackness of day
beware the man who brings
the jaguar
behold him reborn from mud
and earth...
for the one he takes you to
will cancel the sky...
...and scratch out the earth
scratch you out
and end your world
he's with us now
...day will be like night
and the man jaguar will lead
you to your end...
where are they taking us?
We tell stories of a place
stone-built
what happens there?
I don't know...
...but the earth bleeds
we are near
salvation!
He has the laughing sickness
he likes you!
Help me!
Save me
die like a man
welcome back
have you been successful?
Ask my son
how many captives?
Deal with my son
a fair price
as always. trust me
good
how much will you give me?
Who will buy this woman?
No... she's too old
she can be useful
she can cook... clean...
useless old woman
no sale
go
go on